Translating zMUD
----------------

zMUD v6.06 and later have the ability to display text in any language.  This is controlled through a set of data files that are read by zMUD during execution.  This document describes how to translate these files into a different language.

NOTE: When translation files are used, zMUD will run slower.  Whenever a window is displayed, zMUD will need to read these translation files before it can display the window.  To restore zMUD to the default English language, delete the translation file.

The ZMUD.LNG file
-----------------

The ZMUD.LNG file is the main translation file for zMUD.  It contains all of the text displayed by all of the windows and dialogs in zMUD.  This includes buttons, captions, menu items, etc.  You can customize any of this text by changing the ZMUD.LNG file.

By default, there is no ZMUD.LNG file.  When no file is present, zMUD defaults to English and can run faster since it doesn't have to read this file.  The English version of ZMUD.LNG is distributed under the name: ZMUD_ENGLISH.LNG.  To modify the text displayed by zMUD, modify this file and copy it to ZMUD.LNG.  The next time you run zMUD, it will read this file and use it for it's window displays.

Other files to translate
------------------------

There is other text used by zMUD that is not stored in the ZMUD.LNG file.  Here is a list of other files used by zMUD:

GLOBAL.MUD: A global settings file that contains the main toolbar buttons for zMUD.  Simply use the Global Settings option in the Settings menu in zMUD to access this file.  Then change the captions on the buttons to whatever you want and save the file.

ZMUD.DAT: The main zMUD command file.  This file contains information about all of the commands used in zMUD.  This information is displayed in the Command Wizard and in the Syntax Editor to provide help about zMUD commands.  To edit this file, use the zMUD Command Editor tool included in the zMUD Developer's Kit.  You can edit the help descriptions of each command, but your should NOT change any of the command names themselves.  In some cases, zMUD uses these command names internally and changing their names could prevent zMUD from working properly.

DEFAULT.MUD: Contains the default Directions used in the zMUD mapper.  Open the Settings Editor, then use the File/Open command to open DEFAULT.MUD.  Edit the direction names and save the file.

LICENSE.TXT: The zMUD license agreement is displayed when you first run zMUD.  Feel free to translate it, but since it's only displayed once, it's not really worth the time and effort to translate it.  

README.TXT: The version release notes.  This is displayed by the installer when you install zMUD.  Since the eLicense wrapper that controls the 30-day trial and purchase of zMUD cannot be modified, you can put special instructions for foreign users in this file and they will see it before they run zMUD.

ZMUD.HLP: The main help file for zMUD.  It is a *huge* job to translate this file unless you already have some good help file editing tools.  Help files are stored in binary format and require special tools to access and edit.  These tools are usually expensive.  Also, the ZMUD.HLP file is updated with almost every zMUD release.  There is no method built into the help system to track changes to a file.  So, with each new version, your translated help file will be out of date and will require a lot of effort to determine what has changed that needs updating.  My recommendation is that you do not modify the ZMUD.HLP file, and that you instead provide a web site dedicated to a particular language where you can translate the most important parts of the helpfile for online viewing.  If you send me the URL for such sites, I'll be happy to link to them from the main zuggsoft.com site for non-English speaking zMUD users.

Conclusion
----------

After you have translated any or all of these files into a different language, let me know.  Contact zugg@zuggsoft.com via email first to see if I need a particular language translation.  Then, when requested by Zugg, you can send the translated files as email attachments.  I'll integrate your files with zMUD and package them as a specific language-version of zMUD and make it available from the zuggsoft.com web site.  You can then download this version and post it to your own web sites as desired.

If you discover any problems with the translation, let me know.  There might be some places where longer text doesn't fit properly.  Email me about these problems and I'll get them fixed over time.  Then, let your friends know that zMUD is the first and only MUD client available in foriegn languages and that can be customized for any language that you want.

Zugg (13-Sep-2000)